---
name: hepdata
layout: newbase
---
{% include layouts/find_title.md name=page.name %}

##### The Repository
{% include_cached navigation/findlink.md name='HEPData' %} is an open-access repository for
scattering data from experimental particle physics _which includes data points_ from several
thousand publications produced by multiple Collaborations working in High Energy and Nuclear Physics.
It is hosted by CERN as a part of its Open Data initiative.
The PHENIX Collaboration is using this platform as one of the principal components of its
{% include navigation/pagelink.md folder=site.about name='dap' tag='Data and Analysis Preservation (DAP) effort' %}
and manages a growing {% include navigation/findlink.md name='PHENIX on HEPData' tag='collection of HEPData entries' -%}.

##### Policy
By policy established by the PHENIX IB, every paper containing tables and/or plots
must be accompanied by a data package containing the tables and/or plots data before it is approved
for publication. Please see the official policy document (sec. IV.iv):
{% include_cached documents/doc.md type='document' tag='pub_policy' %}
The data package must
* Conform to the specific format required by the HEPData portal
* Be certified by the IRC for each publication
* Have an Insipre ID associated with it

##### General Comments
In order for data to be successfully uploaded to the HEPData portal, it must conform to a specific format (please check the HEPData site for documentation). Existing text files can be converted to the HEPData format with some effort. The DAP team is looking at technical solutions to facilitate this process. For example, if plots are generated using ROOT macros the code can be instrumeted to output same data in a format compatible with HEPData. There is a helpful write-up about preparing data for upload:
{% include_cached documents/doc.md type='writeup' tag='nattrass' %}

It is important to provide the **Inspire ID** for the submission as this is required for the upload to work. **Including the PHENIX-internal PPG identifier is highly recommended as it reduces chances of human error and facilitates communication.** Both Inspire ID and the PPG identifier can be easily incorporated in the comment field of the *submission.yml* file which is an integral part of the submission package.

Each collaboration using the HEPData portal has a coordinator registered on that Web resource.
At the time of writing, PHENIX has delegated this responsibility to M.Potekhin (potekhin_at_bnl_dot_gov).

##### The Procedure
* The IRC is responsible for QA of the data. The IRC selects one of its members
as the official reviewer of the data uploaded to the HEPData portal who gives the final approval before the data goes live.
* The submission package for a given publication is prepared in the form of properly formatted YAML (and optional PNG) files. The HEPData portal provides adequate
documentation on this and other subjects.
There is a mandatory *submission.yml* file describing the contents of the package, which allows optional comments.
It is strongly recommended that the comments include
   * The Inspire ID of the publication
   * The internal PPG ID
   * The name and e-mail address of the designated IRC member for final approval

* There is a **sandbox** feature on HEPData which allows to validate the submission package and in particular whether the LaTeX-formatted abstract is rendered correctly.
Please use it. It requires an account on HEPData which is trivial to obtain.
Once you log into the portal, the "sandbox" option will be clearly marked in the menu in the upper right corner of the Web page.
The sandbox won't be visible to anyone without the link generated by the system, so the data are protected in this manner.
* The submission package (i.e. a collection of files created for HEPData) is then added to a specific folder on GitHub:
[https://github.com/PhenixCollaboration/documentation/tree/master/assets/hepdata](https://github.com/PhenixCollaboration/documentation/tree/master/assets/hepdata){:target="_blank"}.
This is done as follows:
   * Create a fork of the "documentation" repository on GitHub (easy to do in the Web UI) and clone the resulting repository
   * Check if the correct "ppgXXX" folder exists, if not create it and add it to your repository. 'XXX' stands for the PPG serial number; populate the folder with your HEPData submission files
   * Do "git commit ." and "git push" to place the material on GitHub (do not push to "master"), and create a pull request on the GitHub website in order to merge your addition into the repository

* The DAP team then uploads the package to HEPData and notifies the designated IRC member
that they need to review the data already uploaded and issue their final approval. This is done via a Web link.
Each table or plot is approved separately. Only after each item in the submission is approved the PHENIX HEPData
coordinator can finalize the submission. At this point, it becomes globally visible on the HEPData portal.

Please contact the {% include navigation/pagelink.md folder=site.about name='contact' tag='DAP Team' %} for
more information.



